[Update] 3rd party tools compatibility (#10477)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-third-party-tools-compatibility.md

---
title: Known Incompatibility Issues with Third-Party Tools
summary: Describes TiDB compatibility issues with third-party tools found during testing.
---

# Known Incompatibility Issues with Third-Party Tools

> **Note:**
>

> > The [Unsupported features](/mysql-compatibility.md#unsupported-features) lists features that are not supported in TiDB, including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The [Unsupported features](/mysql-compatibility.md#unsupported-features) section lists the unsupported features in TiDB, including:
```

## General incompatibility

### `SELECT CONNECTION_ID()` returns a 64-bit integer in TiDB

**Description**

The `SELECT CONNECTION_ID()` function returns a 64-bit integer in TiDB, such as `2199023260887`, while it returns a 32-bit integer in MySQL, such as `391650`.

**Way to avoid**

In a TiDB application, to avoid data overflow, you should use a 64-bit integer or string type to store the result of `SELECT CONNECTION_ID()`. For example, you can use `Long` or `String` in Java and use `string` in JavaScript or TypeScript.

### TiDB does not maintain `Com_*` counters

**Description**

MySQL maintains a series of [server status variables starting with `Com_`](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/server-status-variables.html#statvar_Com_xxx) to keep track of the total number of operations you have performed on the database. For example, `Com_select` records the total number of `SELECT` statements initiated by MySQL since it was last started (even if the statements were not queried successfully). TiDB does not maintain these variables. You can use the statement `SHOW GLOBAL STATUS LIKE 'Com_%'` to see the difference between TiDB and MySQL.

**Way to avoid**

> Please do not use these variables. One of the common usage scenarios is monitoring. TiDB is well observable and does not require querying from server status variables. For custom monitoring tools, refer to [TiDB Monitoring Framework Overview](/tidb-monitoring-framework.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not use these variables. One common scenario is monitoring. TiDB is well observable and does not require querying from server status variables. For custom monitoring tools, refer to [TiDB Monitoring Framework Overview](/tidb-monitoring-framework.md).
```

### TiDB distinguishes between `TIMESTAMP` and `DATETIME` in error messages

**Description**

TiDB error messages distinguish between `TIMESTAMP` and `DATETIME`, while MySQL does not, and returns them all as `DATETIME`. That is, MySQL incorrectly converts `TIMESTAMP` type error messages to `DATETIME` type.

**Way to avoid**

> Do not use the error messages for string matching, but use [Error Codes](/error-codes.md) for troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not use the error messages for string matching. Instead, use [Error Codes](/error-codes.md) for troubleshooting.
```

### TiDB does not support the `CHECK TABLE` statement

**Description**

> The `CHECK TABLE` statement is not supported in TiDB. To check the consistency of data and corresponding indexes, you can use the [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) statement in TiDB.
> 
> **Way to avoid**
> 
> Use [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CHECK TABLE` statement is not supported in TiDB. 

**Way to avoid**

To check the consistency of data and corresponding indexes, you can use the [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) statement in TiDB.
```

## MySQL JDBC incompatibility

> Test Version: MySQL Connector/J `8.0.29`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Test Version: MySQL Connector/J `8.0.29`.
```

### Default collations are inconsistent

**Description**

The collations of MySQL Connector/J are stored in the client and are distinguished by the server version.

> Known character sets for which client-side and server-side collations do not match:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows known character sets for which client-side and server-side collations do not match:
```

| Character Sets | Client Default Collations | Server Default Collations |
| - | - | - |
| `ascii` | `ascii_general_ci` | `ascii_bin` |
| `latin1` | `latin1_swedish_ci` | `latin1_bin` |
| `utf8mb4` | `utf8mb4_0900_ai_ci` | `utf8mb4_bin` |

**Way to avoid**

> Set the sorting rules manually and do not rely on the client default sorting rules (client default sorting rules are saved by the MySQL Connector/J configuration file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the sorting rules manually and do not rely on the client default sorting rules. Client default sorting rules are saved in the MySQL Connector/J configuration file.
```

> ### The `NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES` parameter is ineffective

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The `NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES` parameter does not work
```

**Description**

> The `NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES` parameter cannot be used so that `\` character is not escaped. Tracking the [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35302).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES` parameter cannot be used so that `\` character is not escaped. Track this [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/35302).
```

**Way to avoid**

> Do not use `NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES` with `\`, but use normal `\\` for SQL writing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not use `NO_BACKSLASH_ESCAPES` with `\`, but use `\\` for SQL writing.
```

### The `INDEX_USED` parameters are not supported

**Description**

> TiDB does not set the `SERVER_QUERY_NO_GOOD_INDEX_USED` and `SERVER_QUERY_NO_INDEX_USED` parameters in the protocol. This will cause the following parameters to be returned inconsistently with the actual:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB does not set the `SERVER_QUERY_NO_GOOD_INDEX_USED` and `SERVER_QUERY_NO_INDEX_USED` parameters in the protocol. This will cause the following parameters to be returned inconsistently with the actual situation:
```

- `com.mysql.cj.protocol.ServerSession.noIndexUsed()`
- `com.mysql.cj.protocol.ServerSession.noGoodIndexUsed()`

**Way to avoid**

Do not use the `noIndexUsed()` and `noGoodIndexUsed()` functions.

### The `enablePacketDebug` parameter is not supported

**Description**

> TiDB does not support the [enablePacketDebug](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/connector-j-connp-props-debugging-profiling.html) parameter, which is a MySQL Connector/J parameter used for debugging that will retain the packet's ring buffer. This might cause the connection to **UNEXPECTED CLOSE** and **DO NOT** turn it on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB does not support the [enablePacketDebug](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/connector-j/8.0/en/connector-j-connp-props-debugging-profiling.html) parameter. It is a MySQL Connector/J parameter used for debugging that will retain the packet's ring buffer. This might cause the connection to **UNEXPECTED CLOSE**. **DO NOT** turn it on.
```

**Way to avoid**

Do not set the `enablePacketDebug` parameter.

### The UpdatableResultSet is not supported

**Description**

> TiDB does not support `UpdatableResultSet`, that is **DO NOT** specify the `ResultSet.CONCUR_UPDATABLE` parameter and update data inside the ResultSet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB does not support `UpdatableResultSet`. **DO NOT** specify the `ResultSet.CONCUR_UPDATABLE` parameter or update data inside the `ResultSet`.
```

**Ways to Avoid**

Using additional `UPDATE` statements for data updates, you can use transactions to ensure data consistency.

## MySQL JDBC Bug

### `useLocalTransactionState` and `rewriteBatchedStatements` are true at the same time will cause the transaction to fail to commit

**Description**

When the `useLocalTransactionState` and `rewriteBatchedStatements` parameters turned on at the same time, will cause the transaction to fail to commit. You can reproduce with [this code](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-java-gitpod/tree/reproduction-local-transaction-state-txn-error).

**Ways to Avoid**

> **Note:**
>

> > This bug has been reported to MySQL, you can follow this [Bug Report](https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=108643) to keep track of the latest news.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This bug has been reported to MySQL JDBC, you can follow this [Bug Report](https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=108643) to keep track of the latest news.
```

**DO NOT** turn on `useLocalTransactionState` as this might prevent transactions from being committed or rolled back.

### Connector is incompatible with the server version earlier than 5.7.5

**Description**

The database connection might hang under certain conditions when using MySQL Connector/J 8.0.29 with a MySQL server < 5.7.5 or a database using the MySQL server < 5.7.5 protocol (such as TiDB earlier than v6.3.0). For more details, see the [Bug Report](https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=106252).

**Way to avoid**

This is a known issue, and MySQL Connector/J has not merged the fixed code so far.

> There are two-dimensional fixes in TiDB:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB fixes it in the following ways:
```
